---
title: 3.5. Watermelon Script
---

[Return to Table of Contents](index)


# What is Watermelon Script?
Watermelon Script (WMS) is Suika2Scripts's companion language for advanced use-cases such as configuration changes from within a scenario file. This feature was introduced in Suika2 Version 11.10 and is planned for improved and more integrated development as more users begin using it within their stories.

# Basic Usage – Changing the Message Box
The introduction of WMS now allows for one of the most requested features – a changeable message box.

Create a file named `msgbox.txt` in the `wms/` folder.

The following script changes the message box `foreground` and `background` images.
```
func main() {
     s2_set_config("msgbox.bg.file", "msgbox-fg.png");
     s2_set_config("msgbox.fg.file", "msgbox-bg.png");
     s2_reflect_msgbox_and_namebox_config();
}
```

To call the definition file, use the following command:
```
@wms msgbox.txt
```

## What Does Everything Mean?
Some may feel intimidated by the difference in syntax and layout used by WMS, but don't worry, it's actually quite simple!

Let's take our message box script for example:
```
func main() {
     s2_set_config("msgbox.bg.file", "msgbox-fg.png");
     s2_set_config("msgbox.fg.file", "msgbox-bg.png");
     s2_reflect_msgbox_and_namebox_config();
}
```

`func main()` is the name of our function, it is used to split up different segments of the script, similar to the way chapters of a book work.

`{` and `}` are our margins, everything inside these will be attributed to our function.

`s2_set_config` calls Suika2 and lets it know that we're about to ask it to modify a configuration.

The other sections are all dependent on what you're doing. If you'd like support, please contact us.
