---
title: Creating Graphical User Interfaces
---

[Return to Table of Contents](home)

This command displays a GUI (graphical user interface). The [`@gui`](3.-suika2script-and-commands#gui) command is a replacement of the [`@menu`](3.-suika2script-and-commands#menu) and [`@retrospect`](3.-suika2script-and-commands#retrospect) commands. You can show up to 128 buttons on the screen using this command with button types such as `jump to label` and`"show if variable is set`. GUI definition files (found in the `gui/` folder) are also used for the `config`, `save`, `load`, and `log` screens.

GUI definition files follow a CSS-esque structure and markup scheme; people familiar with CSS will find these files intuitive, but as they follow a seperate structure from Suika2Script, new or learning users may find this information helpful.

# Calling GUI Files
Calling a GUI definition file is similar to other call commands such as [`@goto`](3.suika2script-and-commands#goto) or [`@load`](3.suika2script-and-commands#load) and are formatted as `.txt` files.

```
@gui file.txt
```

To allow `right-click cancel`, append `cancel` to the above example.

```
@gui file.txt cancel
```

# Writing GUI Files
To begin using GUI definition files, create a `.txt` file with the desired name, in this case a main menu file should be named `menu.txt`.

It is good practice to insert a comment at the beginning of the document describing its purpose as well as defining a title (these will not be visible in game).

```
###
### GUI Definition for Main Menu Screen
###
```

GUIs are image-based interfaces in the same way as that `@menu` is; however, unlike `@menu`, GUI definition files have a different layout. The first step in building a GUI is defining three images: `idle`, `hover`, and `active`.

Image definitions are wrapped in the `global {}` tag at the beginning of the document and Suika2 will automatically parse these images during gameplay, negating any need to build this behaviour from scratch.

The `idle` image is the default image displayed when the user isn't interacting or hovering over any buttons.

```
# Basic Settings
global {
    # Use these images
    idle:   menu-idle.png;
    hover:  menu-hover.png;
    active: menu-hover.png;
}
```

It is common practice to use the same image for both `hover` and `active`, but this is not a concrete rule.

As well as images, GUI definition files require developers to define buttons and their attributes such as `function`, `position`, `size`, and `sound effects`; this is why most people consider GUI definition files a better alternative to `@menu` as they provide a clearer structure readable at a glance. Buttons are wrapped in their name, in this case `START {}`.

`x`, `y`, `width`, and `height` use `pixels` as their units, however, these units are default and should be omitted.

```
START {
    # Jump-to-label type
    type: goto;

    # Jump to label
    label: START;

    # Position and size
    x: 2;
    y: 495;
    width: 314;
    height: 192;

    # Sound effect when pointed
    pointse: btn-change.ogg;

    # Sound effect when clicked
    clickse: click.ogg;
}
```

The above example defines a button named `START` that acts as an `@goto` command jumping to the label `START`. Two different sounds, `btn-change.ogg` and `click.ogg` will be played when the user hovers over the button and clicks it respectively. To complete the menu, append similar buttons with relevant `x`, `y`, `width`, and `height` values for `LOAD`, `CONFIG`, and `QUIT`.

# Advanced GUI Files

As well as simple GUIs like the one described above, Suika2 supports a number of advanced GUI types such as `history`, `load`, and `save`. These GUI definition files are used for system menus that serve a specific purpose rather than a general one. To utilise these advanced features, it is recommended that developers edit the provided templates rather than build from scratch.
