---
title: Suika2 Pro for Creators
---

[Return to Table of Contents](home)

Suika2 Pro for Creators is Suika2's sister application, it acts as a visual debugger, packager, and overall more developer-friendly environment. Suika2 Pro for Creators runs from within the Suika2 directory and does not require any additional setup outside of basic installation.

# Installation
Suika2 Pro for Creators is available as a 'click-and-go' binary, just like the Suika2 base application, it is also included alongside Suika2.

## Windows Binary
* Download the ZIP file from the [releases page](https://github.com/suika2engine/suika2/releases).
* Open the extracted suika2 folder in Explorer.
* Run `suika-pro.exe`.

## MacOS Binary
* Download the ZIP file from the [releases page](https://github.com/suika2engine/suika2/releases).
* Open the extracted suika2 folder in Finder.
* Open `mac-pro.dmg`
* Copy the `Suika2 Pro for Creators` application into the suika2 folder.
* Run `suika`.

**Note:** Do not copy Suika2 Pro for Creators into the applications folder.

# Usage
Suika2 Pro for Creators has a number of UI elements, each with a specific usage.

## Running, Next, and Pause
These buttons are intuitive, `run` begins running the game, `next` jumps to the next line of the script file, and `pause` stops the script from running further.

## Script File
For those developers that utilise several script files, the desired file can be specified in the `Script File` field.

## Current Running Line
Like the `Script File` section, `Current Running Line` is used to display and specify a script line to run. If the specified script line is blank, the next used line will be run.

## Current Running Command
Similar to `Current Running Line`, display the current running command.

## Script Content
This section displays an in-context view of the current line and command being run.

## Variables
This section defines any variables currently in use or specified.

# Export
Suika2 Pro for Creators is used in the creation of `data#.arc` files that contain game assets, configurations, and script files.

To export a package, select `File –> Export Package`.

**Note:** Exported packages do not include the `mov/` directory, these should be included within the distributed game folder.

Suika2 Pro for Creators is not available for Linux, please follow the below instructions to create a package. (These instructions are also supported on macOS)

```
cd pack
make
cp pack ../../game-en/
cd ../../game-en/
./pack
```
