# 6. Suika2 Pro for Creators

Suika2 Pro for Creators is Suika2's sister application that acts as a visual debugger, packager, and overall more developer-friendly environment. Suika2 Pro for Creators runs from within the Suika2 directory and does not require any additional setup outside of basic installation.

## Installation
Suika2 Pro for Creators is available as a 'click-and-go' binary just like the Suika2 base application, it is also included alongside Suika2.

### Windows Binary
* Download the ZIP file from the [official website](https://suika2.com/en/) and extract its contents.
* Open the extracted suika2 folder in Explorer.
* Run `suika-pro.exe`.

### MacOS Binary
* Download the ZIP file from the [official website](https://suika2.com/en/) and extract its contents.
* Open the extracted suika2 folder in Finder.
* Open `mac-pro.dmg`
* Copy the `Suika2 Pro for Creators` application into the suika2 folder.
* Run `suika`.

**Note:** Do not copy Suika2 Pro for Creators into the applications folder.

## Usage
Suika2 Pro for Creators has a number of UI elements, each with a specific usage.

### Running, Next, and Pause
These buttons are intuitive, `run` begins running the game, `next` jumps to the next line of the script file, and `pause` stops the script from runing further.

### Script File
For those developers that utilize several script files, the desired file can be specified in the `Script File` field.

### Current Running Line
Like the `Script File` section, `Current Running Line` is used to display and specify a script line to run. If the specified script line is blank, the next used line will be run.

### Current Running Command
Similar to `Current Running Line`, display the current runny command.

### Script Content
This section display an in-context view of the current line and command being run.

### Variables
This section defines any variables currently in use of specified.

## Export
Suika2 Pro for Creators is used in the creation of `data#.arc` files that contain game assets, configurations, and script files.

To export a package, select `File –> Export Package`.

**Note:** Exported packages do not include the `mov/` directory.

Suika2 Pro for Creators is not available for Linux, please follow the below instruction to create a package. (These instructions are also supported on macOS)

```
cd pack
make
cp pack ../../game-en/
cd ../../game-en/
./pack
```
